All righty, so
we may have noticed that there
is a handy dandy pre ID'd
[LAUGH] script tag at
the bottom of this HTML
file where we can write
the JavaScript we need
to make this happen.
So how did it feel to be just stretching
our legs, messing with a page?
>> Pretty good.
>> All right, we're getting our feet wet,
and again, the quick win category.
I think it's important to start with some
small wins or maybe not start but continue
to try to find those opportunities for
the quick wins all the time.
Because there's a lot of very slow losses.
So [LAUGH] all righty,
so hopefully we've now
got a input check box that
actually does something.
I'm going to walk you
through how I solve this, but
there's lots of different
ways to JavaScript.
So [LAUGH] we're going to also have
a chance like if folks have done
it a different way, perhaps in one
line of code [LAUGH] or in many more,
we can share that with each other.
All right, we can grab that document
element that we were talking
about before with
document.documentElement.
And my handy-dandy, very smart,
very large code editor is [LAUGH]
helping me out with some suggestions.
But that's not a method it's a property.
We're going to then be able to
do stuff like doc get attribute
data theme to get the value
of the currently set theme so
I could capture that as
something like current theme.
And follows well,
we can [LAUGH] log the value
to the console just to
check on what it is.
All right, so now I see some output, dark.
What's all this other stuff about Vite?
We're gonna talk about it later.
[LAUGH] This is not the console log
you are looking for Star Wars people.
No, just okay,
we've got the current theme.
Now we want to figure out
what the new theme would be.
So I'm gonna make a new
variable new theme.
We want this to basically be,
so it's either gonna be dark or
light, the string dark or
the string light, and
we want it to be the other one from
what the current theme is, yeah?
So I could write, I
could write a whole like I
could declare a let variable so
that I can change it to value
later that's like a new theme.
And then I could do
a whole if current theme
is dark then new theme should be light.
But this is taking me forever and
I've had to use multiple lines of code,
which for
some reason developers are averse to.
[LAUGH] So
there is a shorter way to do that.
Can anybody tell me what
the shorter way to write like
an if-else statement like this would be?
Yeah.
>> Ternary operator.
>> Ternary operator, yes, so
this was mentioned briefly
in JavaScript first steps.
But in addition to doing a whole
if-else branching logic this way,
we could replace this with,
well this is gonna be upset because
I already declared new theme.
But we can replace it with a ternary
operator that's like condition move,
then this is the kind of if block, and
then if not, else, yeah.
So, in this case,
our condition is current theme is dark.
And our if block is the value we want for
new theme is light.
So that means that is what this is
going to evaluate to which is then
going to be on the right hand side
of the assignment operator equals.
So that's what the value
of new theme is gonna be.
And if it's not, then that means
the current theme must be light.
So we're going to want to
assign the opposite value,
in this case dark to the new theme.
Okay, so now I can do all of this,
fabulous.
Now I could just, for example,
change the value of this data
theme attribute once and
for all with set attribute [LAUGH]
set attribute, thank you VS Code,
tab completion there if you start
typing something in VS Code.
And you have certain language
settings enabled for JavaScript,
it'll complete what it knows.
Is it always correct?
Absolutely not.
Does it help most of the time?
Sure.
Okay, so I can set the attribute
data theme to the new theme instead.
So now if I run this, okay.
So it's in light mode, so that's good,
but this still doesn't do anything.
And that's because I need
an event listener, exactly.
Okay, so
I am going to put all this fun little
code in a function which
then I can parse as
the handler function to
the addEventListener.
So we're gonna need to attach this
to the input, this checkbox input.
So I can grab that with, I'm gonna call
it toggle and it has that ID toggle.
So I can do document.getElementbyId,
toggle,
and hopefully, let's just double check,
get the toggle input element.
Which is yes what I am receiving here,
fabulous.
Okay, so now I could do a toggle,
addEventListener,
drink coffee before programming
if you're into that kinda thing.
[LAUGH] The addEventListener, we're going
to parse in the name of the event
that we want to listen for.
In this case, it would be a,
anybody know the name of the event
that we'd wanna listen for?
So, like buttons,
we can listen for clicks, but
on input elements we often listen for-
>> Change.
>> Change events, absolutely.
And there are a whole bunch of other
events that the browser knows about.
So change is a pretty useful one,
and then we can parse in a function.
Okay, so now, let's create a function
that we can parse [LAUGH] in.
So why don't I take all of this fun
little code that we have here of getting
the current theme, figuring out
what the new theme should be, and
then setting that as the new value of
the data theme attribute into a function.
Which I could call a toggleTheme or
changeTheme theme or
whatever you wanna call it.
It's not gonna take any
arguments because really all
of the information this needs
it's figuring out for itself.
And now if I parse in
the toggle theme function to
the addEventListener method
on the toggle element,
ideally we have [LAUGH]
a working input element.
Let's find out.
My gosh, it worked, it worked.
Doesn't it feel good?
Even if it took forever.
[LAUGH] Okay, did anybody else
have a different solution?
>> Someone just asked why
not use the arrow function?
>> Why not use the arrow function?
Great question.
In this case, we can totally do that.
So maybe I don't actually need
this toggle theme function for
anywhere else except this one reference,
right?
And I could have declared
this as like toggleTheme =,
and then an arrow function expression,
which looks like this
sometimes called a fat arrow.
So we have the arguments,
and then this fat arrow, and
then the body of the function.
So I could have declared it like that,
and then this would still work.
No reason not to, I like arrows,
we all Arrow people?
Arrow fans?
Arrowers?
Whatever, and in this case, I don't even
really need to name this function and
save it in a variable, right?
Because I'm not gonna use it anywhere but
this one place.
So I could actually make
this an anonymous function
because it has no name,
likes to stay incognito.
That I declare where I need it.
So I could totally use an arrow
function or the function keyword even,
to declare a, well, actually,
let me take that back.
I could use an arrow function
[LAUGH] to declare a anonymous
function that will work
the same way hopefully.
Indeed, okay, so good question.
In this case, there is no difference.
Yeah.
>> Someone had a solution where they just
put, if this dot checked in the function,
and then dot dot Set Attribute
get a them = dark or.
>> Okay, so we can also read
attributes of the input object and
we can check whether it is checked or not.
We just have to make sure that
we are also updating that
every time the checked value changes,
which is pretty
much the only thing in a checkbox,
that there is a change.
And that's why we want to be listening for
that change event so
that we're not just basically
setting it and forgetting it.
We're allowing the user to have their way.
Okay, so this was meant to be a quick
just review example to
get us into the flow.
And we are gonna be in our quick wins,
essentially working in the same pattern.
We're gonna have some very simple HTML,
a script tag that is our job to fill out,
and hopefully we'll add some super
impressive functionality to the page.
[LAUGH] Then what we're gonna be
doing in part two of the course
is pulling all that together into
a more full featured web app.
So we're gonna be starting with bite
sized pieces as we go through some
of these language features and
then we're going to pull them together
into a bigger-than-bite-sized
piece into a meal-sized piece?
I don't know, we'll figure it out.